Parameters
==========

Options for function parameters
-------------------------------

Most functions need parameters. Python offers three options for defining
function parameters.

Positional parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The simplest way to pass parameters to a function in Python is to pass them at
the position. On the first line of the function, you specify the variable name
for each parameter; when the function is called, the parameters used in the
calling code are assigned to the function’s parameter variables based on their
order. The following function calculates ``x`` as a power of ``y``:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> def power(x, y):
    ...     p = 1
    ...     while y > 0:
    ...         p = p * x
    ...         y = y - 1
    ...     return p
    ...
    >>> power(2, 5)
    32

This method requires that the number of parameters used by the calling code
exactly matches the number of parameters in the function definition; otherwise,
a type error exception is thrown:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> power(2)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
    TypeError: power() missing 1 required positional argument: 'y'

Function parameters can have default values, which you can declare by assigning
a default value in the first line of the function definition, like this:

.. code-block:: pycon

    def function_name(param1, param2=Standardwert2, param3=Standardwert3, ...)

Any number of parameters can be given default values, but parameters with
default values must be defined as the last in the parameter list.

The following function also calculates ``x`` as a power of ``y``. However, if
``y`` is not specified in a function call, the default value ``5`` is used:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> def power(x, y=5):
    ...     p = 1
    ...     while y > 0:
    ...         p = p * x
    ...         y = y - 1
    ...     return p
    ...

You can see the effect of the standard argument in the following example:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> power(3, 6)
    729
    >>> power(3)
    243

Parameter names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also pass arguments to a function by using the name of the corresponding
function parameter rather than its position. Similar to the previous example,
you can enter the following:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> power(y=6, x=2)
    64

Since the arguments for the power are named ``x`` and ``y`` in the last call,
their order is irrelevant; the arguments are linked to the parameters of the
same name in the definition of the power, and you get back ``2^6``. This type of
argument passing is called keyword passing. Keyword passing can be very useful
in combination with the default arguments of Python functions when you define
functions with a large number of possible arguments, most of which have common
default values.

Variable number of arguments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Python functions can also be defined to handle a variable number of arguments.
This is possible in two ways. One method collects an unknown number of arguments
in a :doc:`list </types/lists>`. The other method can collect an arbitrary
number of arguments passed with a keyword that has no correspondingly named
parameter in the function parameter list in a :doc:`dict </types/dicts>`.

For an indeterminate number of positional arguments, prefixing the function’s
final parameter name with a ``*`` causes all excess non-keyword arguments in a
function call, that is, the positional arguments that are not assigned to any
other parameter, to be collected and assigned as a tuple to the specified
parameter. This is, for example, a simple way to implement a function that finds
the mean in a list of numbers:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> def mean(*numbers):
    ...     if len(numbers) == 0:
    ...         return None
    ...     else:
    ...         m = sum(numbers) / len(numbers)
    ...     return m
    ...

Now you can test the behaviour of the function, for example with:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> mean(3, 5, 2, 4, 6)
    4.0

Any number of keyword arguments can also be processed if the last parameter in
the parameter list is prefixed with ``**``. Then all arguments passed with a
keyword are collected in a :doc:`dict </types/dicts>`. The key for each entry in
the dict is the keyword (parameter name) for the argument. The value of this
entry is the argument itself. An argument passed by keyword is superfluous in
this context if the keyword with which it was passed does not match one of the
parameter names in the function definition, for example:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> def server(ip, port, **other):
    ...     print(
    ...         "ip: {0}, port: {1}, keys in 'other': {2}".format(
    ...             ip, port, list(other.keys())
    ...         )
    ...     )
    ...     total = 0
    ...     for k in other.keys():
    ...         total = total + other[k]
    ...     print("The sum of the other values is {0}".format(total))
    ...

Trying out this function shows that it can add the arguments passed under the
keywords ``foo``, ``bar`` and ``baz``, even though ``foo``, ``bar`` and ``baz``
are not parameter names in the function definition:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> server("127.0.0.1", port="8080", foo=3, bar=5, baz=2)
    ip: 127.0.0.1, port: 8080, keys in 'other': ['foo', 'bar', 'baz']
    The sum of the other values is 10

Mixing argument passing techniques
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is possible to use all the argument passing techniques of Python functions at
the same time, although this can be confusing if you don’t do it carefully.
Positional arguments should come first, then named arguments, followed by
indefinite positional arguments with a simple ``*``, and finally indefinite
keyword arguments with ``**``.

Mutable objects as arguments
----------------------------

Arguments are passed by object reference. The parameter becomes a new reference
to the object. With immutable objects such as :doc:`/types/tuples`,
:doc:`/types/strings` and :doc:`/types/numbers`, what is done with a parameter
has no effect outside the function. However, if you pass a mutable object, such
as a :doc:`/types/lists`, a :doc:`/types/dicts` or a class instance, any change
to the object changes what the argument refers to outside the function.
Reassigning the parameter has no effect on the argument.

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> def my_func(n, l):
    ...     l.append(1)
    ...     n = n + 1
    ...
    >>> x = 5
    >>> y = [2, 4, 6]
    >>> my_func(x, y)
    >>> x, y
    (5, [2, 4, 6, 1])

The variable ``x`` is not changed because it is unchangeable. Instead, the
function parameter ``n`` is set so that it refers to the new value ``6``.
However, there is a change in ``y`` because the list it refers to has been
changed.
